Let's take a look through the narrow lens of aspects and see
how we as responsible CDK developers can do our part to uphold
best practice security principles.
I love the generic definition of aspects by Amazon,
a way to apply an operation to all constructs in a scope.
You couldn't be any less specific than that; however,
where it's simple in principle, it's extremely powerful in execution.
Let's see how. In technical terms, an aspect is a
more generic version of tagging, which is an instance of the visitor pattern.
More specifically,
an aspect is just a class that implements the IAspect interface like this.
Think about how simple the application of an aspect is.
You can apply everything you want to any construct you want.
And since constructs are so universal,
that means you can really just about apply any check to anything your brain can
conceive. It really doesn't even have to be about security.
It can be a rule check against any property.
To that end,
it's akin to a rules engine where you can create rules in a closed system.
As I said,
it doesn't really even have to be about security. You could
build an aspect that ensures that all buckets in your
organization be created in the Oregon region.
Who knows, maybe your organization isn't allowed to do
business outside of a specific country.
You could use a rule like this to limit what regions
are allowed for specific objects.
Let's take things down a few levels and talk more practically about our
demo application, Globomantics, and how this might apply.
We have a React application that runs in a static website
bucket accessed by a CloudFront distribution.
So would it not be prudent to ensure that the bucket isn't
accessible by anyone in the world except the CloudFront role or
maybe the CodeBuild deployment role?
An aspect could ensure that the website bucket is limited to that role.
How about creating an aspect that only allows access to
Dynamo from the lambda functions?
An aspect could check that only lambda roles have access to
Dynamo. Aspects are run at synthesis time.
Therefore, if we treat aspects in part like unit tests,
we can catch many faults prior to deployment that we may not otherwise catch.
Yes, you could go way overboard on building aspect checkers; however,
like unit tests,
a common sense logical design of checks around security is
germane. At a minimum, on the security topic,
all resources should check to ensure that least privilege is
upheld by checking that only the rules assigned and the actions are allowed as expected.